# Check in 1, 2024-11-08

# addressing prior feedback
We have done more research on how minimap2 works and what the inputs and outputs are. 
We appreciate the feedback that this is likely the best tool for us to use and will proceed with it. 
For clarity, we want to make a progressiveMauve-like plot to visualize all of the phage genome alignments, but not using this outdated tool. 
  What we like about the progressiveMauve plot is how it shows where each chunk of the genome is in relation to the reference, 
and endeavor to make a similar plot for our final output. To start, we will simplify and pick just one reference genome to align to - 
  in the original paper, they had alignments to all three reference genomes used in one figure which we found to be confusing and this is why we originally wanted to subset to the querey genomes aligned to each reference genome separately 

# where we are at
So far, we have downloaded our phage genomes aligned in the paper and have them uploaded to our github. 
  We are starting to work on shell scripts for minimap2 to align these. 
We took a slight detour to see if nucmer would work which we discussed briefly in an earlier meeting but have decided against continuing with it. 

# project organization
Currently, we have a folder for our phage genomes and one for scripts. 

# struggles/questions
We want to spend more time working on minimap2 and exploring the options with it before asking for help. 
  In the issue/comment, there was a suggestion to use ggplot for visualization - which specific geom should we plan to use? 


