### Check in 2, 2024-11-22

# addressing prior feedback
We chose to focus on aligning the seven new phage genomes to just one reference, Escherichia phage vB_EcoM Hdk5 (Accession no: MK373780.1), to start wtih for clarity of our project. This was mentioned in 3/3 peer reviews. We modified the README considerably to address the gaps in understanding and logic that readers were having, including things like clarifying that this is phage to phage and not an E. coli to phage alignment, and that the references are representatives of three genera of phages. 
Depending on how much we can tackle, we hope to consider aligning the seven new phage genomes to the two other reference phages used in the original paper to be able to compare how well each maps to the different genera. 
Another repeated comment was to make it clear what code will be used and what for. Therefore, we highlighted in the README that bash and R will be used to align and plot, respectively. We also were interested in driving home the point about why this is interesting, which we included in the **Why?** section. 
Thank you for the advice on how to use geom_rect(), we are working on implementing this to visualize our alignments in the style of the original progressive mauve plot we are basing it on but without using the depricated tool. 


# where we are at
Since last time, we have successfully aligned our seven new genomes to one reference from the Phapecoctavirus genera! This was done using minimap2, which was a bit more difficult than initially anticipated, specifically due to the incomplete downloading during `curl` then `git clone` and finally settling on creating a new conda environment to download minimap2 into; for whatever reason we could not download it directly onto our computer and get it to run. The paf_output files out putted from minimap2 have been uploaded to the github. 
We are working on using R for ggplot to visualize them. We will check out ggseqlogo which was recommended in a peer review depending on time constraints, which will likely be a sequence logo on a conserved gene in those phages, like a capsid CDS.
We are also looking into paftools as a potential intermediate step to add into our protocol before plotting in R. 
We are also working on updating the README with a "further reading" section that would add calrity based on other peer reviews that we received which would not be necessary to run the code but would make for a comprehensive background statement, including why we chose minimap2, concisely describe how it works, alignment reliability/believability and accuracy/strictness ("Algorithim Overview). Yet another interesting concept to visualize alignment to explore would be a morph of a TAD heatmap, which is bascially the intended paf output usage but able to incorporate alignment strictness data. 


# project organization
```bash
virus-wgs-comparison
|-- README.md
|-- scripts
|   -- minimap2_alignment.sh
|   -- plot.R
|   -- old_test_scripts
|      -- minimapper.sh
|      -- nucmer_comparer.sh
|-- genomes
|-- paf_output
|-- doc
|   --checkin1-20241108.md
|   --checkin2-20241122.md
```


# struggles + questions
Do we need to use paftools on our paf_output files before we can plot in R? It seems like we should be able to do it both ways and are exploring both options. 
Do you think as a reach goal creating a heat map to show where the alignments of the genomes vary is a good idea? Do you have any advice for executing this?
